If you visit the official documentation, you will find the link here under guides where it says javascript
environment,
if you click on that you can learn more about the javascript environment your javascript code runs in
in the react native code.
Now here you also see how it works technically, you can see that it basically runs a javascript instance,
runs your javascript code for you in the native app and always keep in mind, the majority of your code,
all the UI is compiled to native code,
the Javascript instance which is run is really just there to let you execute your logic which you wrote
in Javascript.
And since we run javascript there, of course the question is which javascript features can we use there
because when running Javascript in the browser, the browser we're using determines which features we
can use,
you of course know this if you developed a web app which also has to target older instances of Internet
Explorer
for example, you may have to make some or impose some limitations on the Javascript features you use
and that's also the case here.
You can always have a look at this article to see which features you can use and you can't use
and I recommend doing so because react native is evolving,
so if I just tell you you can't use x y z, that might not be true in a year from now,
so definitely check out this article.
First of all here you see which features you can use in development because as you see here, react native
basically apply some transformations to your code,
so basically allows you to use next gen javascript features during development
and this code will still work once it's shipped to the device. You can use things like arrow functions,
let and const and so on,
all these things we already used in this course which might seem natural to you,
all these things we typically also use in modern react for web applications,
you can use most of them here,
a list can be found here.
Now what's interesting are the polyfills,
here you get access to many important javascript functionalities that typically are only included in
the browser like console log,
we'll have a look at this in the debugging section
or the fact that you can require other things
or the fact that you can send Ajax request with xml http request or the fetch API and that of course
also means you could use a package like axios which builds up on xml http request, that you
have set timeout and set interval and so on.
These are things you can also use in react, in react native I should say and it might seem obvious
to you but actually, this is only the case because react native provides polyfills for this to work
on the native device because it's not running in the browser, it's running on some standalone thread,
always keep that in mind.
There also are things you can't use,
they aren't listed here but if it's not listed here, you can't use it,
that's how you can think about it.
Things you can't use right now for example are the javascript file API, so the API where you can turn some
element, some items, some file into a blob and then upload it for example,
though this support is probably coming in the near future. Most important things should be supported
though,
so in this course we won't really face any issues because some feature wouldn't be supported. Anyways,
have a look at this page to learn what you can use and if you are running into some issue that something
doesn't work,
check out this page
if it's supposed to work because maybe you try using something which isn't supported.